max: Or
max: okay? I mean.
Lilliana Robinson: You can also read out questions if there are like larger questions while you're doing it. Do you want me to read them to you, or we'll just wait till the end.
max: Yeah, I'll go through. I made a little couple of notes here, and I can put this on the base camp when I'm done, so you don't have no one else to like
max: type it. But so I can just share. Tell my story with this a little bit, which is so I I got
max: I got really really lucky, very young in my life, and I met Barack Obama
max: at an anti Iraq War rally in Chicago, and I just, and I was in high school, and I just went up.
max: I don't know why. I can't believe I did this, but I went up, and I was like, I love you. I want to work for you like let's make it happen. And he gave me his business card, and I and I just got so lucky, and I and I worked with him for many, many years, and I I also was very lucky that I got a job on the can the Presidential campaign when he ran for President the first time in 2,008,
max: and I've been like, I've had interesting, you know, whatever ups and downs in my career, and been in all these interesting places. And, like, I have to say, like the Presidential campaign, there's nothing I can't even compare it to anything in life like the pressure cooker. The it is
max: I I can't, I struggle, I can't even describe the intensity of it. And so to give you a picture, we're in this huge office
max: and a whole floor of a big building in Chicago.
max: and they have this countdown clock on the
max: They have this countdown clock on the wall, and it's showing like the day, the months, weeks, days.
max: hours, minutes, and seconds until election day.
max: and you show up to work. And you're like, Oh, maybe I should like check my email, or like play a little like spider solitaire, or like chat with people, or like, figure out a lunch order. And you see those tech seconds counting down. And you're like, no, we're all every. It was the. It was a incredibly intense. And then this was before like scrum and agile. And all this was like 2,008. So it was like early days for all of that. But what what my little team that I was on would do
max: was we would check in in the morning, so we'd all get to work at, you know, whatever 7 or 8, and everyone would say what they wanted to accomplish during the day, and then we'd all work until you know whatever 8 or 9 at night, and we'd have a checkout meeting, and everyone would say what they got done, and there was just like no excuse for missing it. So
max: I was all that's I. I just got dropped. I was like, I'm a I am a by temperament. I'm like a very lazy and disorganized person, and so I had to learn this. I was in college at this time, and I just had to like get it together like it was on. I just could not. I couldn't go to these meetings like I didn't wanna let the campaign down. I didn't wanna let my team down, and I didn't wanna let myself down. And so I just had to like pick up these habits. So
max: a couple of things. So so this is this is the things that have worked for me.
max: Me go back and do a screen share here.
max: You guys can see this right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: When you see it.
max: Here. Okay, cool.
max: So I really connected with the system called getting things done. And there's a book by a guy called David Allen called getting things done. I I can't really like in good conscience, recommend reading that book. It's it's
max: I don't know. It's interesting. It's a classic, a lot of people really like it. I don't think it's necessary to read it, but it does have a lot of like. Really, I found it. It was just a very like
max: What would I say? Like a very like systematic way of like thinking about your time and your attention? And for me it was the first time in my life where someone said, You can have a system of what you do with your time and attention, and you can spend those precious resources in a in a way that is your decision
max: another one that was really important to me, that I really I do really recommend everyone check out is a talk by a really really smart guy called Merlin man. And this is a talk called Inbox 0 that he gave it Google. It's from like the 2,010 s. Or something like that. It's old at this point.
max: But this is like, if you've ever heard the phrase, Inbox 0. This is where the he coined the term in this talk, and it's just a great great talk, and we'll come back to that inbox 0 idea, and in a few minutes, and then another one. That's a really beautiful book is the checklist manifesto by a tool Galande. Does anyone anyone
max: can't. How do I so wish I could see the
max: the chat while I do this? Has anyone read that out of curiosity? That's like a big best seller.
max: I can't see everyone. Anyway, I'm seeing a lot of heads shaking now. Okay, well.
max: the quick
max: I I'm gonna spend a lot of time. I'll kind of today I'll kind of walk you through like the main ideas in
max: getting things done. But just to quickly give you, like a summary of the Checklist manifesto. And that book Rocks. It's a quick read is super well written atool galandes, an amazing guy. But basically, the story of that book is the World Health Organization. He's a really
max: a great surgeon based in, I think, in the Us. The World Health Organization comes to him and says, hey! There's a lot of preventable and accidental deaths in surgical, in surgery, and like surgical theaters in the Third world, in refugee camps and places where they don't have proper equipment. And they said, Can you come up with something that basically is cost no money that would like reduce accidental deaths during surgery?
max: And first he was like, well, no, I don't think that's possible. And then he, the the book is his journey of he's like, well, he's like, well, wait a second. He's like, there's other industries that are like life and death where they basically statistically like, never make mistakes. Right? It's like aviation.
max: Statistically, 0 people die in airplane. It's crazy how safe aviation is. In the Us. Building construction like nobody dies in like building in like a collapse building in the us. It's basically non-existent. So he goes to these industries, does a lot of interviews, looks at how they do their job. And the common tool is the checklist. Everybody has a really expensive checklist that's like this repeatable process. And then there's behaviors that go around the checklist like healthy
max: team behaviors around the checklist and that that book is, and then he applies it to health, and the results are really cool. So love that book and also definitely recommend on that.
max: And then I'm also gonna walk through the to do list software that I use, which is called Omni focus. And if you, I will give like an overview. I don't. We'll see how that goes. If I can like. Explain it well, on this call, and we'll set up some projects together just to like, show how I use it.
max: But if you want to learn more about Omi focus, there is this guy, David Sparks has this website called Max Sparky.
max: where he teaches sort of like
max: things, for, like Mac Power users. And he has a this thing called the Omni Focus Field Guide. That is excellent. It's a video. It's I don't know. Maybe 1 h video tutorial that will like, make you into an omni focus. Power user. Also everything. I I'm a apple like power user. I'm don't. I'm like a degenerate apple user. I'll never. I'll just buy anything they make. And I'm never gonna do anything different. But if you like, omni, focus, it's on every apple platform. So ios ipad OS vision OS Mac.
max: and they just launched in the new version. They have a web client. So even if I'm on like a gaming PC. Or whatever like that, I can still get it. Cross-platform, which is nice.
max: Okay, so this is so just to talk us any questions about any of that before we get into getting things done.
max: I can't see if there's any questions.
max: Okay, no question. Oh, Samarth, you know someone who knows a tool. Galande. That's the coolest thing I've ever heard.
Samarth Gupta: Yeah, yeah, he's a really close friend of mine. Actually, he was at Harvard. Doing research with him
Samarth Gupta: a while back.
max: Dude. He's he's he's all he's so good, he's such a good writer and such a good storyteller. I I I really like him.
max: You wrote another book about death. If you have, if you wanna really get depressed and read that, it's pretty good.
max: alright. So getting things done.
max: Alright. So the main.
max: This is with one caveat on this.
max: This is like my ideas about getting things done. I'm not rep. I can't represent, you know the the. If you get really interested in it, read the book and hear what David Allen says, but this is my, what works for me in any case. So at that core of getting things done is like starting with like, what what do you want to be using your brain for during the day right? So like to use like a computing analogy like you have so many cycles. Dur, you know, per hour to like. Think about things. Where do you want to be putting your cycles like? Where is your memory allocated at any given moment?
max: You know, my, my! I think this has become like a more widespread, you know, way of thinking or whatever, but, like my belief is like, people are really like, what are people good at? Uniquely good at like, what's the superpower of humans
max: working together in teams, creativity, synthesizing new ideas.
max: writing poetry?
max: Right? This is like what we should be putting our energy into. And
max: humans are uniquely, barely for me. My brain is like you, so bad at like remembering things, remembering things in sequence, knowing how long things are going to take
max: having lists of things like, I'm just so. I'm terrible. I don't know how you guys feel about it, but I feel ex. I feel it comes like I feel like every day I go. I can't leave the house without having this thing with me, and then, 9 times out of 10, I forget the thing like it's not in my backpack when I need it.
max: So getting things done is all about having
max: good system in your life, so you can free up your brain to like solve problems and go to work for you and not be spending cycles thinking about? Do you have the right things with you. Did you remember to talk to this guy? You know, whatever
max: the
max: key idea of getting things done? If there's like one
max: takeaway that I think will like change your life. And I, from change my life. Is this idea of like ubiquitous capture, so ubiquitous capture means? If you think of something.
max: write it down right then, because you won't, you'll go. I'll remember it in 10 min, and I'll write it down then. And I you definitely won't. It's gone, you'll be like, so I'll be walking around, and I'll be like, I think I was supposed to write something down, but I don't remember what it was Neil. Can you share when I was over at your place, what I left in your
max: yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Keys that I literally stood there and said, Hey, Max.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was like, Hey, Max, I really can. I have these keys back because I need them for the house. He goes. Yeah, I'll leave him right here on this counter, and I like looked him in the eye. And I'm like, Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and then.
max: Actually got it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I think of what we did.
max: The little house, the little house gift that I brought you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's what you're talking about. I thought.
max: Yeah, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: He? Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: so
Neal Sáles-Griffin: were you talking about the like the red alert? I thought somebody snuck into my house.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause I'm in the restroom I look over, and I'm like yo
Neal Sáles-Griffin: who was in my bath tub.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cause there's something on the wall in my bathtub. I'm like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: intruder alert, like what the heck is going on, and it turns out Max left this like idea. Notepad like the shower notepad thing in there. I don't know how he snuck in there, but he did, somehow, when I wasn't there
Neal Sáles-Griffin: hung this thing up that allows me to like write down my ideas while I'm in the shower, which is great.
max: So if you go on Amazon, there's like a lot of products like this, like the one I like is, I think it's called like the shower notepad, and it's like a waterproof, like a plastic key waterproof paper like a pad that you can tear, and then like a pencil, and it suction cups onto your shower. But this is like to me. This is like ubiquitous capture. Cause like there's something about. I don't know if you guys have this experience. But there's something about being in the shower where, like, I always remember that one thing where I'm like. And I'm like, and I'm like God, I like. I was like I didn't call that person back, or like.
max: I have to remember to get this done today, and you have to write it down then, because, if you like, get out, then it's like for me. I have a kid. Right? So then I need to
max: with my kid. It's like, it's, it's like, we're off to the races. So like, that's captures like always, you should always have some way to write things down and like the phone is so good for this, we'll get to this and Omni focus. But like another great tip I have for you. If anyone has a newer iphone. The iphone added this button on the side, the action button, which
max: for me, I I never had a great use of it right? And so what I have. Now
max: I'll hold it up to the camera here. So what happens now, if I hold the action button, it actually starts a voice memo, and it's recording now, and that goes into my to do list. So, and if I'm in the car anytime during the day, I just push that button, and then this gets transcribed and it's gonna go in my in my omni focus for later. So that for personally, for me, that's like the coolest, best thing I've found to do with this little button on the iphone.
max: and it's really helpful, because, like
max: is stuff path.
max: I I find stuff pops into your head at the weirdest times, you know. You can't sleep or you're out for a walk, or you're at lunch with someone. And this is like the key inside of getting things done is just capture. It. Put it in your to do list.
max: It will change. Just doing that will change your life. And my experience is like something like 90% of people are under capturing in their life, meaning like they're not writing down enough of the things that come into their head, and that could be things like business ideas, marketing ideas like
max: I write down like jokes that I think of, like just all the weirdest stuff pops in your head, and you'll be so happy with yourself. It's such a great gift to give yourself in the future just to write it down, but especially things that you remember that are important to you.
max: Along with a ubiquitous capture, is another idea which is so in the getting things done world, they call it reviews, and a review means it's like a little con. It's a contract with yourself, meaning like, I will look at my to do list and like review like.
max: remember this stuff right? Cause you don't wanna feel like you're just writing it down, and it goes into the void. So you also need some system to do a review and Omni focus the one. The program I'm gonna show you in a minute. It has a feature that just does this for you, but you can also put in your calendar review, you know. Review your to do list like for me. I have a little morning routine where I sit down and review my to do list, and and I I pick what I want to get done during the day.
max: Some of the other ideas in getting things done.
max: Don't live in your email inbox. So a lot of I've I'm curious. If if anyone wants could. Shares has anything to share about this. But like.
max: I think, many people basically use their email inbox as their to do list functionally, meaning, like, you wake up. You look at your inbox. And then, whatever is the most important thing in your inbox, that's what you wind up working on, or if you slow down during the day, and you're like, I don't know what to do next. You go into your inbox and you're like, I'm just gonna figure out who's in my inbox and start solving these problems.
max: The this is the from the inbox. 0 talk that I recommended by by Merlin. This is such a bad way to work like. If you could imagine that you're in like a big office right like you work in like a
max: a co-working space.
max: This would be like if you had the door open, and at any time during the day anyone in the world could walk into that office and tap you in the shoulder and like, interrupt your work and say, could you do this really annoying thing? And then you just do it. It's it's like a it's like a maddening way to work and it, and it really saps your attention during the day.
max: So the idea, I think, in the like getting things done, world is, you need a to do list is like a separate thing from your email. It has to come away from your email and doing the email becomes like a Chore like for me doing email like I try to think of it as like taking out the garbage. So I go. I will have 30 min a day. I'm gonna sit
max: set a timer. I'm gonna sit down. I'm gonna do my email. And then I'm like, but done with it until tomorrow, or whatever I mean realist like I. To be honest, I look at my email all the time. But like I try, that's the habit that's the better habit I'm trying to get into is to like
max: be more intentional about it, because I don't. You know, I don't want anyone in the world to be able to interrupt my day and tell me what's important for me to do.
max: Related idea to that with it. This is this is another idea. I like about to do lists. I think it's very important to have
max: your own private personal to do list that has no sharing features with any other users, so I know probably everyone's company. You're on Base Camp. You're on notion you're on Trello, you know. Some bug tracker pivotal whatever
max: Asana those are good. I have to use those for my work with other people, but I just find it.
max: It's upsetting to me. I don't like when other people like are moved things around like it's like a special. It's my like special, like my brain. It's like my order of what's important to me, and I don't want anyone else to be able to change that. So unfortunately, the best system I have for this is like often what I do is like.
max: If I have a team meeting. We're all on Asana together. We're all on notion together, and we make our to do lists. I then
max: copy my to do list out of notion and put them into omni focus. And I make my own private decision for myself of like, what am I gonna do? And what order does it go in? And all of that? And we'll we'll look at that omni focus in a few minutes. But just just it's a nice like. It's a nice like bulk against insanity, to have your own private place, with no other users where you get to decide what you do with your time.
max: Pretty pretty nice luxury to have for yourself.
max: Couple of other ideas in getting things done that are cool are when you write things down, so how you write it down matters a lot. You wanna give yourself like a gift of like when you write it down, make it as easy as possible to like, understand and do it. So a couple of ideas with that number one
max: write things down in the smallest possible chunks
max: that you have, right? So it doesn't help you to be like.
max: launch, my, you know, like, create a startup and launch it, because that's not really doable like. And and one of the rules of thumbs in getting things done is nothing should go on your to do list that can't be checked off right? So like I have a cat, for example, right? So I could. I can't really put a to do list. Item on my to do list. That's like, take care of my cat
max: cause like I can't ever check that. It's not the nature of that task, because it can't be completed. So what I could say is like, feed my cat at 5 pm. Because that's I can check that, and it goes away and it's done. But I can't be like
max: a a more like a like a lifestyle goal of like, provide a good quality of life for my cat, because that's that's really not like a like a checkable, doable thing.
max: And you don't want to build that hat, you know. You don't want to be like exercising that muscle of writing things down for yourself that are impossible to complete.
max: That's more for
max: I think for your yeah eirs to tell you to do every week.
Lilliana Robinson: Max, where would you put that stuff? Do you have like a separate thing with the goals, or like, when you do have something like that? Or do you just not.
max: That's a really good question. So this, I think this is very personal. I would love to throw this back also for the group that's actually really, I would love to hear about this. But like, so I've more. Ca, somewhat recently, I've gotten Intra a little bit interested in hearing people talk about like journaling and like intention setting and things like that. I think it's really cool. I don't know a ton about it, but I think there's some I really like people. I think it can be like a really beautiful practice to like.
max: wake up and be like, I want to have this kind of a life, or I want to be a more
max: You know
max: Gracious for what I had, you know, like th those sort of like lifestyle goals, or whatever or like. I want to be this kind of a father. I don't really do that to be honest. But but I'm curious. Does anyone have a practice like that that they could share, or
max: something of something of something like you like New Year's resolutions, or journaling, or, like anyone, have any experience with that.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah, I did that. I have a a list. I keep it in my notebook.
Nelson Mitchell: and it's like my intentions.
Nelson Mitchell: So
Nelson Mitchell: it's it's part of a
Nelson Mitchell: therapeutic practice, where I tried to
Nelson Mitchell: align my actions with my intentions.
Nelson Mitchell: So I'll just go back to them and say, How How am I doing.
max: And has that? How long have you been doing that.
Nelson Mitchell: Couple of years on and off
Nelson Mitchell: I find that it's helpful like it's helpful like when I'm trying to make a decision about like a finite resource. Whether it's my
Nelson Mitchell: time or my money or my attention.
Nelson Mitchell: I'll come back to that list. And I'll say, like, Okay.
Nelson Mitchell: does this fit.
Nelson Mitchell: It helps that it's short. It can't be longer than like 4 things, otherwise.
max: Rad, yeah, I I think that's a great question. For me, like I can tell you.
max: I was one time I was in a co-working space, and I had someone at my little pod of desks with me. Not a coworker, just someone a friend of mine right?
max: We're working in the middle of the day, and this was when I was. I was like in your situation, because I was in the midst of like starting up a startup right? And it was around 3 30 in the afternoon on like a Wednesday.
max: And this is my friend Nick, and he stands up and he goes. I'm done for the day. I did all my tasks, and I'm going to go for a bike ride.
max: and I and I was stunned. I couldn't. I was like, what? And he goes, yeah, I'm done. I did everything. What do you mean? You did it. The concept of
max: being done, of of having a list of things that could be done in one day was like
max: totally foreign to me, cause I was like, I'm gonna do as many things as I can until I like
max: collapse, basically right? And then I would wake up every day with a list that was so big that I couldn't possibly do it. And I just saw like this freedom like he had just a great life like. And he, he was like, Yeah, I'm going for bike ride at 3 30, and I was like, I want that life, and so like I don't have like. I don't have a journal, but that's like a top that became a be an important goal for myself of like I wanna have a life where I can be done with my work and have the important things in life
max: and decide to have time for them. I don't always do that. It's not always successful, but like that
max: for me, like if I'm
max: that comes back to like the to-do list and Omni focus, and some of the stuff we'll get into in a minute. But it's like by
max: making this little contract with myself, and like deciding at the beginning of the day, like we came in to do XY. And Z. And then I can consider this a successful day that give. That's like an important
max: thing in my life
max: that I like
max: couple more getting things, done things, and then we'll do some of the questions. And then I'll show you guys, omni focus.
max: let's see, okay, so this is actually the last thing I have. So when you so you when you break, write down projects, I was saying, break into the smallest chunks right? So like, get really granular like, I think you can really check off like, not like
max: design and launch a marketing campaign, because that's like way too big. You have to be like, make 1 h to like. Go on a walk and brainstorm about the marketing campaign. And then you write down like, make a memo for myself of what I'm gonna do you know, it's like you're really breaking it down into like things that can actually be accomplished.
max: And along with that
max: capture like right, you wanna give yourself the gift of writing down a lot of detail about the things you have to do so like for me, like, for example, like I have, all because I'm like a a homeowner.
max: and like a lot of my to do list. Things are like, call the plumber to fix the toilet.
max: I know I need to do it, but I like I can't tell you like I hate. I don't know why that makes me so stressed. I but I like, do not want to. I just don't like doing that stuff.
max: So I know I can like, give myself a little boost. If when I write that down, I look up the plumbers phone number and put it there, and just like, get it all ready. And then when I it's time to do it, it's like I've taken away all the friction. It's just like I'm taking friction away taking friction away. So I can just sit down and do the job that I need to do. So it's just like giving yourself all the detail you need to complete the task.
max: And we I will get. We can get a little more into this. But another thing that I love is a lot of times when I'm doing email.
max: I I try to like Zip through email. Like most, the big, here's a the best trick about email that this is again. This is all in that Merlin man, that inbox 0 talk which is so funny and so good. And and I love but Merlin, says, the biggest thing about email, the biggest trick about email is you don't need to reply to like 99% of it. What you should be doing with most of your email is archiving and moving on with your life.
max: Most other emails they can be replied to in 20 s. And then, if it takes longer than 20 s, and you're like, Ok, I really have to think about this and solve a problem or write a letter.
max: just put it in your to do it like, make make an item in your to do list to be like right back to Neil right? And then I have to have a more detailed thing, and then take it out of your inbox just like it's like taking out the garbage like, take everything out of your inbox and just
max: be done with it. And I have to say, like.
max: I've like stopped responding to so much email. I just like, I just don't deal with it. And like that, there's been. It's been awesome like, it's so good. It solves so many problems in my life. So every email you send it's not like you're done with it. It just makes 5 more emails. So.
max: okay, let's do a little. I'm curious what people are thinking any questions. And then we, I will get into omni focus. And I think it could be a good exercise to like, build out some projects, and I'll show you like exactly how I write stuff down this. I saw a question in here about recurring tasks, which is like my favorite thing. I love recurring tasks, and we'll get all into that. That's that's the best making little systems in your life
max: like a good engineer.
max: But
max: any questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Go ahead, Sergei.
Sergey: Hey? Yeah, I read getting things done a whole bunch of years ago. Don't remember all the details. Use some of the concepts there. One thing
Sergey: wanted to to add is one benefit is just
Sergey: not. I'm not only getting the ideas down, but then there's
Sergey: for me, anyway, there's a feeling of anxiety later in the day. If you don't do that, you're like you're like, what was that? What was that idea I had in the shower. What what was I just thinking? What did I have to do? And for me like that's even
Sergey: more annoying than like forgetting the idea is like the feeling that you forgot something. So just getting it down. So you don't have to worry about. That helps a lot.
max: I I always find like if I just sit and like brain just like sit in the morning sometimes and just like write. And it's like, you know, just like here's everything I need to do, and I get it out of my head if I then like, go have my coffee, or go take a walk. I sometimes I have the best ideas, cause it's like you're almost like you like made space. And now, like, you can like, think you have, like you can like breathe
max: but yeah, totally totally agree.
Lilliana Robinson: Max, how do you decide like if you want to be like that guy at with the 3 30 bike ride, how do you decide what
Lilliana Robinson: where the list ends for today. Cause I feel like you can always do more. And it's like, Yeah, I know there are deadlines for things. But how do you divide it up in today's versus like this is how much.
max: I'm gonna show you in omni-focus. Cause it's very like it's just like, I just use the software. And then there's features that.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, okay.
max: But there's a concept in Omni focus.
max: So so so let's say, we have a task right? And the task could be let me think of an example of like well, like, write down my notes for the getting things done. Talk right?
max: So I might have a bunch of subtasks, and that like, watch this talk on Youtube to familiarize myself with it. And that task has, like there's an idea and getting things done called like dependencies and dependencies can be all kinds of things. So what are the dependencies of, let's say the task for me is re-watch the inbox 0. Talk
max: to familiarize myself with it.
max: So the dependencies for that are like Number one. I have to have 1 h of time.
max: Number 2. I pretty much have to be at home. I don't really want to like, you know. That's like, kind of want to like. Be at my desk and like, be able to take notes and stuff.
max: and that's and then that's about it. Right? But other dependencies, some tasks like, I have depend. Like, listen, I have like dependencies where it's like, okay, I need to buy this thing. And then I have to be a target. The dependencies I have to be in a certain place. I have dependencies of like meet with the founders for my one on ones, and those are dependencies on other people. So dependencies can be anything
max: outside of you that you need to do the task. So Omni focus has this great
max: feature that shows that says, Show me the available tasks, meaning, where are the tasks without dependencies so like, what can I do now? And like, for example, on my, if you use it on your phone, it knows your location, and it will actually show you like. Let's say I'm at target, right? It will just show me as available all the shopping things I need to do a target really cool. So those become available because I'm standing at target.
max: Another one is like, let's say, like like Liliana, I have things that are tagged, Liliana, like things that you and I need to discuss, and I'm on a but they could be across this project that project right? Techstars like, maybe it's like I have one right now in my to do list of like, send you puzzles right
max: when we talk. I can be like, just show me all the I'm see, I can basically go into the Liliana dependency and just be like what's available for like stuff for Liliana right now. So basically, to give the answer to your question is like, in the beginning of the day I have omni focus. Show me everything available for the whole day, and I'm almost like you're almost like Doctor Strange, where you're like seeing all the possible futures. And you're like I could do this. I could do that. I could do that.
max: I try to make a decision of like this is I. I'm like I could be go to sleep tonight and feel happy with myself if I get done this, that and that.
max: and then I have, and then I just pick them and omni-focus like I flag them, which I'll show you but like, and then that's it. And then that's my to do list for the day.
max: And do you get.
Lilliana Robinson: Lost. And
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, go ahead. Sorry, Mike.
max: Oh, I do. I'm not like it's not possible to do like. I've probably a lot of you can relate to this, but like it's I can't do everything I need to do today, like it's not happening. So.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, you know, that's it.
max: Yeah, but I always think like it's better like looking back on it. There's always like a you're like riding this like avalanche down a mountain or something right? And like it's always better to like. Let's say you've got a hundred things to do. And you know you're only gonna get 4 of them done. It's trust me. It's better to decide for yourself the 4 you're getting done than just have it be like who emailed you most recently
max: what you know, whatever like you, you want to be intentional and be like. I can like help my company the most I can help my life the most if I do.
max: 1, 2, 3, and 4.
Lilliana Robinson: Super helpful. Thanks, Max. Go ahead, Ali.
Alejandra Guillen: Yeah, rather than a question is, maybe a reflection. So I I find personally myself doing Co making 2 mistakes. And I wonder if you know you've you've done it and have some feedback. One is overestimating the amount of time that I actually have available to work, because, you know, there's so many meetings, there's so many impromptu conversations that are important, that still away from the hours.
Alejandra Guillen: and that generates frustration because I never get down my to the least, because I have less and less time to complete.
Alejandra Guillen: So that's the first mistake that I'm making constantly. The second one is the underestimation of time that it takes me to do new things so I can assess how long it takes me to do something that I've done before.
Alejandra Guillen: because I know how long it takes to think about it or like you said, it's an immediate thing, 20 s response to an email. But we're going through a lot of things that are new.
Alejandra Guillen: and I'm underestimating a lot of the time that it will take to think, to create a system, to repeat them
Alejandra Guillen: and
Alejandra Guillen: and and so that also contributes to not finishing things in time and kind of like, have that feeling of
Alejandra Guillen: the pile of things for the next day, and the following is only increasing. So
Alejandra Guillen: that's that's something that I feel
Alejandra Guillen: I need to start managing much better. So if you have any advice, or if if only focus can help on that.
max: Yeah, I so omni focus is not like a time tracker, you know. I think they do have some features in there. We which we can. I can open those up when we get in there in a second, and they do have some like, how much time will it take? I don't use that.
max: So listen, I have the same problem as you. I'm I'm really. I have like a hole in my brain in the place where it's supposed to be where you know how long things will take and like I will like. I'm like famous where I'm like with a friend, and they're like, hey? I have like a half hour free, and I'm like great. Let's go get lunch, because it'll take like 10 min to walk there, and then we'll order them. We'll eat, and that'll be 10 min, and then 10 min to walk back and we'll be done. They're like, are you? Out of your mind like like a 90 min, you know, whatever. But like I'm so bad at it.
max: So I just have a couple of thoughts. I don't know if I can't even say if this is good advice, cause I'm late for every I'm the worst at. I'm I'm awful at this. I'm late, for everything everything takes me too long. But just a couple of quick things are like, number one.
max: Okay, so I
max: do, you guys know about flow state, does that? I feel like that idea is out there, right? So like, if I'm working on something
max: programming.
max: designing, writing, thinking whatever. And I get into that flow state where you just like part of the part of flow state is time really disappears, like I've heard like. For example, I've heard like basketball players talk about this like, if you're in flow state on the court, you don't know if it's like 6 h or 6 min, and it's just it. It's a it. I find it to be almost if I get there, which is like not easy, like. It's sometimes once a month. I have like a time when I'm working, and I'm like I'm in the Zone right now.
max: I find it to be like sacred like I. Just
max: the best work of my life is in those moments, and I don't care. I don't care what's on my to do list unless my, unless my daughter needs something for me, is about the only thing, but, like
max: everyone else, can
max: go pound sand like I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna do my work, and
max: I don't. I don't know if that's helpful or not. But like.
max: if I'm in just that's like such a special, you know. I think, like you only get so many of those. And you're I'm not a professional Mba player, so I can't just like get into the Zone, you know, whenever I want. But, like.
max: those are such
max: special moments in my life, I'm just like, forget I'm like, I'll text everyone I know. And I'm like, plans are off. Sorry I'm I'm
max: I had a good idea. I gotta work, and that's it, and just use it when you have it.
max: Yeah, blackout swings. Yeah, exactly.
Zach : So so there's a concept. I play baseball in college. We call them blackout swings where basically you'll hit a home run and you'll go back in the dugout, and your teammates will be asking you like what pitch it was where it was located at, and you have no idea like you were completely oblivious to what was going on, but you just crushed it. It's crazy.
max: Zach, can you talk about
max: Is there any tricks? Or I guess we're getting a straying a little off topic? But I'm just so interested in this, like how to like
max: serious athletes like think of like, how do you get into that zone?
Zach : I well, me personally, I did a lot of visualization prior to games.
Zach : So if you see yourself doing something
Zach : it's more likely that you are gonna do it right. And when you get in these moments, if you kinda clear your mind and stop like letting anxieties pull your brain left and right, you wanna have like, if you ever meditated before, we just have this like empty state in your brain. If you can get in that empty mode more often than not. It kinda just, I say, like not to bring spirituality into it. But
Zach : I say, like the universe takes over when you stop trying to control and will your way to stuff. It just does what it's supposed to do. So that's I'm like more. Take the the dummy approach to it where it's like, clear your mind, and it just takes over. But
Zach : The less you have to think about, the more you kind of naturally just flow. That's how I do it. At least, I don't know about anyone else.
Sergey: Yeah, I I did practice martial arts and meditation for a while. So I think it's exactly that. It's like
Sergey: letting go. So letting go of everything. Thoughts.
Sergey: The I think this specific thing is
Sergey: detachment from outcomes.
Sergey: So it just
Sergey: you. You don't care. You're just
Sergey: there, regardless in the moment.
Sergey: And that's a practice that you get. That's the muscle memory you get from
Sergey: from just mindfulness, practice.
Zach : Yeah, there.
Sergey: Doing that over and over again.
Zach : There was something else I'm I was thought about when you said that. A kind of like clearing your mind and and not focusing as much. So another concept in baseball is this thing called quality at Bats or Quabs, where you could do everything you're supposed to do correctly, but still get out.
Zach : You have a higher, higher chance of not being successful as a hitter than you do, being just like a one third of the time you'll you'll actually get on base, or you'll be successful at your job. So you really don't even focus on trying to hit. This is related to your task list. You don't focus on trying to get everything done every single day. You just try to do what you're supposed to do when you, when you align it when you wake up in the morning.
Zach : Trying to be perfect all the time is like a losing battle. So that's another thing that we kind of focus on detach from the outcome is a great, great way to say that.
Zach : Yeah. And.
max: Antonio, just linked to a really good book. I I read this book when this came out, called flow away! This is the I might have read a different book.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Subscribe.
max: Wait. Is this the guy who's is this the flow state? Guy?
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, the flow state guy like he he he is. This is is fascinating. Like he he did a study, and he interview lots of people to understand what what's flow. State. And he came out with these 7 bullet points of what takes us to to flow state.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And it's.
max: I think.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Quickly address. It's really it's really, it's really nice book. But.
max: I did read this. This book is really cool, and another one a aly that might be helpful. I think it's kind of in line with with your question. This is great book called that's newer called Deep Work by Cal Newport. I don't know if anyone read that, but it's about like a lot of I can give you the like back of the book. Blurb is like, basically like a lot of the most important work that you'll do, and the best work that you'll do is work that happens like
max: very slowly over a long period of time, and unless you like intentionally make that time in your life you could easily live a life where you're always putting out fires and working in short bursts, and you never
max: have that that time to to get into the flow state and work on everything.
max: and then add one more. One in here
max: Jennifer could tell. Tell. Say more. But I you were. I think this was maybe about like making systems about keeping. The shared note of problems to solve.
Jennifer Loh: Yeah, I mean, I was thinking, where, when you write down these thoughts that you have my husband and I are always complaining about poor design. And so every time we see something where it's like, this is really poorly designed, or just like not good or anything, then we just write it down and write down our ideas on
Jennifer Loh: how we can make it better. But the running, Doc we've had for a few years now, and it's like so long. And I think you know, at some point
Jennifer Loh: we will probably
Jennifer Loh: build whatever we think is the best idea, or I guess my husband will. But yeah, I think that's kind of like our parking lot for ideas that come to our head.
Jennifer Loh: and you so.
max: How do you have like systems for like solving things in your house, for example, like.
max: you know, ordering
max: laundry detergent, or like, you know those like these like little like nuisance problems.
Jennifer Loh: No, but actually, I just downloaded coexist at the last demo day. I don't know where. Wait is Andy here? No
Jennifer Loh: doton. He okay? Well, anyways, coexist was from the last cohort and for a household. I do almost everything like I schedule the kids, doctors, appointments, and like
Jennifer Loh: schedule, the housekeepers and all sorts of stuff, and so a lot of times a lot of the like administrative stuff falls on me, and I'm like this is an inequitable. And so so yeah, we downloaded the coexist app, and we really need to like implement it, because I think it'll be better.
Jennifer Loh: or at least
Jennifer Loh: I don't know. Dawn, you tell me, have you used it?
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: Well, I'm sure Andy and Stella would appreciate the shout out,
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: no, we're me! Me and my wife for a bit a bit on the messy side with all those kind of stuff. So unfortunately, it's
Dotan Shalev/Lexir: it's not. It's not our way. But but it's an awesome. It's an awesome app.
Jennifer Loh: Yeah.
max: cool. I would love if we have a few minutes at the end.
max: I want to get into omni-focus just before we get too long, but if we have a few minutes at the end, I would love to have a little parents chat if there's any other parents, because that's my struggle right now is like
max: I thought I had some stuff figured out, and then it's like.
max: no, I do not. I don't have anything figured out. But anyway.
max: okay, so this is on the focus. I am running the demo of this. So it's a brand new install just to like show you guys. So I'll also go through. And as we work I'll like
max: I'll like
max: coming out.
max: I see the problem.
max: I'm also on a new user account on the Mac. And they've really hopefully disabled. Right? Click. I think.
Jennifer Loh: Is this on desktop and app like mobile app.
max: And everything. Yeah, it's on every they're like.
max: So this is made by a company called Omni Group. And they are like.
max: first class, like apple citizens like they're like, they're like
max: great widgets, like on every platform, like best practices, like they're really great. They're like they're and they've been around for it's very, very old, mature software that's been around for decades. They're like, beloved old long time, Mac developers. So I definitely trust them. I've been using this since college like, it's been around for a minute.
max: Okay, so this is Omni, focus the on the left. Here. You've got these little tags. And these are like our big areas.
max: so inbox
max: inbox is where we're going to quickly capture stuff. So I'll just make a couple here and we can see how this looks. Right? So
max: review inbox 0 talk
max: for the techstars, folks. Okay?
max: And that's going to go. We'll just leave that there for a second.
max: Let's see, buy Kitty litter and that one. Okay, so let's put some dependencies on that in a minute, because that one I need to be a target to do.
max: And let's see, I want to read, reread
max: by.
max: Actually, it's really I don't really want to read flow. It's actually, I want to like, read the books from the chat.
max: From the Gtv. Talk. So what I'm writing down right now, this is a real one that should really go on my actual to do list. But the the idea here is
max: I just saw in the chat when we were talking, people were putting book recommendations. And I wanna go. I wanna document those and go read the books. So I'm just writing it down to remember, and we'll break that out in a second. So the inbox is just like this is basically like the the to do app on your iphone right? It's just like a list of things that can be done.
max: If you check it, it's done just like that.
max: in here is like a little editor, so I can put a note in here. So this is just a note to myself. So these are
max: in the zoom chat, right? So that's just like contacts or information to whatever you want.
max: and then each you can see each task here. It can have a project
max: and a tag and
max: I want to change
max: something. Here.
max: let's add.
max: I don't know. I don't think you. I don't know if you guys can see this.
Lilliana Robinson: We can't see whatever pop up.
max: Changing.
max: There we go. I changed the set in the settings of Omni focus. I added, these extra little fields in here. Right? So so okay, so let's look at the properties that a to do item can have. It can be in a project. It can have a tag. A tag is is another word for dependency tag. Okay, tags can be anything you want. This is what's cool. Omni focus could do whatever you want. I like it for doing like a getting things done system like I was talking about. So the way I personally use tags is, I make them my dependencies. Right
max: here we go. So send
max: Liliana
max: puzzles. Okay? So
max: tags, I have 2 here. So this is going to be a I need to get Liliana's address. So this is going to have like sub.
max: So let's let's do another one.
max: So it's actually like email.
max: Loiana, and get
max: her
max: address.
max: And
max: what I'm going to do is drag this under this task. So it's actually a nested. It's actually like.
max: just became a little project, almost like it's like a dependency. So first I have to do this, and then I can do that right.
max: So this one is going to get a tag. This is like a mailing task.
max: meaning like I have to like, have
max: stamps or something I have to like. It's involved in like sending mail.
max: This is one of my dependents. That's how I think about it because I send a lot of packages and stuff out to people.
max: And then this one is like, I actually need to talk to Liliana.
max: So I'm going to do. I'm going to make a dependency for Liliana, because I can't do that on my own. I need her for that. So she becomes a dependency.
max: Okay? So the other fields that we have here are
max: defer until this little feature called defer until this is the Mo.
max: This is the most special thing in Omni focus. I don't really know of other to do
max: list software that is quite set up like this. And this is like a for me a like a life changingly cool feature, which I will we will get into in a second, do due date. Everyone is familiar with that, and then repeat, so this is how you do like recurring tasks. And this is like such a good little editor. Can you guys see this? The little editor in here. The picker. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we can, yeah.
max: It's such a ro robust picker you can do. You can do like repeat it every Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
max: you know, one week
max: until you know, from the deferred date, like, it's very, it's super robust.
max: Okay.
max: so let's go. Now, let's keep looking down those. So that's inbox. So we just captured a bunch of stuff.
max: So now I can see
max: projects. So let's do, let's make a couple of projects for ourselves.
max: So a new project is going to be
max: techstars. Gtd, talk. I know I need to get that ready.
max: Let's make one for like clean my office. I need to do that today.
max: and anyone have a project they want that would be helpful to like, break out like an example project. Just to write down.
Jennifer Loh: Do you use omni? What focus for personal or work, or both?
max: Everything for me, because it's only me on it. There's no sharing, it's everything. It's all. It's everything. It's like work.
max: stuff for my daughter like.
max: Do the dishes water the plants?
max: shopping everything. It's like any. It's what I need to do with my time during the day.
Jennifer Loh: Okay.
max: That's how I like it. But you don't. You know some people prefer totally, you know, like Church and State, and I like I just like it, cause those are all that's my life, like I have to do all that stuff.
Jennifer Loh: Right.
max: Anyone have a little company project they want to throw on here. Someone volunteer.
Jennifer Loh: Financial model.
max: Make. That's so good. Make a financial model.
max: Okay?
max: Nope, yeah, okay, great, that's projects. Let's look at projects real quick. So I'm gonna open up. So there's this other bar here. This bar is like all the metadata. So like, let's look at it here real quick.
max: This bar shows all the same metadata as here. It's just broken out into another panel, and there's all the options right? You could put notes, the defer date, the tags, the project. This all
max: should be basically familiar.
max: So projects have another really cool piece of metadata, which is project, type.
max: project type, and there are omni-focus offers 3 different kinds of projects.
max: So this is a parallel project. A parallel project is a project with tasks that can all be done at the same time. So clean my office
max: clemat. Actually, Clem, I,
max: Texas. Gtd, talk.
max: What's a parallel project?
max: Let's just say clean my office as a parallel project, meaning there might be 20 things right. Organize my books, take out the trash.
max: whatever buy this thing. It doesn't really matter what order. It doesn't matter to the success of the project. What order I do those things in? They can really be done in any order. So that's parallel.
max: Make a financial model we're going to get into like. We'll break that out into tasks. But I can already tell you that is a sequential project, meaning you have to do. Step one before step 2 like you can't unlock the end until you've done the beginning. Many projects are like that.
max: and the last one is single actions and single actions are like.
max: I kind of use it almost exclusively for something like a shopping list where it's like, you don't even need to do everything you just need to do some of it, or it's just like one off like, Do this, do that? Okay?
max: Another option is complete. The project of the last action. So that's when it's all done, just go ahead and complete the project. So this is, let's get into the financial model. Actually, I'm going to make my Gtd talk a sequential. I'm going to set it to sequential meaning. I want to do everything in order. Okay.
max: so first is, actually, I have a project. I have. An item which is review inbox 0. Right? So let's put that in
max: Techstar's Gtd talk. And now here it is. Right.
max: Then there's write up my notes.
max: Then there's install a vanilla omni focus trial to demo.
max: And then there's like
max: I don't know like, get the zoom link.
max: 10 min before the talk.
max: Okay? So that's the project that's like,
max: you know, whatever that's abbreviated. We can all imagine a project with all the steps in order like that, right?
max: So
max: I need to make a perspective.
max: Give me 1 s. I'm I'm gonna I have a little pop up here and I'm making a perspective.
max: So I'm setting availability.
max: So what I made is a little
max: these things on the sidebar, right? These are just sort of like filters of like how I'm looking at my my to do. It's just different ways of filtering and seeing the items you have to do, and I just made one for myself here called available, and this is now
max: showing me
max: only what's available to do right now.
max: So if we look in that in my little talk, right, the only thing available for me. Because, I said, this project is sequential meaning. It has to be done 1, 2, 3, 4 in order, and only in order. The only thing available for me to do right now is review the this inbox 0 talk.
max: and what that means is I can't write my notes until I've reviewed that this is useless to me. I don't want to see. Write my notes because I can't do it. I at first I have to watch the talk right?
max: So when I look at available like when I wake up in the morning, and I'm like, what am I going to be doing.
max: Sorry.
max: Tag this. Okay, there we go.
max: I don't want to see. Write my notes. I only want to see review the talk. So this is a reflection of what's available for me to do
max: right now. So now let's say I wake up, and the talk isn't for another couple days, or whatever, and I don't even want to see this.
max: I'm going to say, defer this
max: for 2 days.
max: and now it becomes unavailable, and I don't even see it.
max: It's out of
max: it's out of my brain.
max: But I know in 2 days, when it becomes when that timer comes down and it becomes available again, I'm going to now see it again on my available list.
max: Are you guys
max: with me?
Lilliana Robinson: So when you moved the task out of the inbox to the project, did it stop living in the inbox.
max: Yeah, so it moves. So
max: this is a setting you can change. But in Omni focus it never like disappears things. It only does things on
max: refresh, meaning like when you close out of the window. And that's so, you don't. I think the idea is to prevent they don't. The software is never going to show you things changing and moving
max: in real time.
max: To not make it look like your things are disappearing.
max: Essentially.
max: Yeah, you can change that in settings. I believe.
max: So.
Lilliana Robinson: So then, when you 1 one more question, Max, when you have the non sequential project, so the parallel project.
Lilliana Robinson: do all of those things just show up in your available, since it's like you can do them all.
max: Yup. So let's look at that. So clean in my office. Take out the trash, order new pens from the Japanese pen store.
max: What else do I have to do to clean my office.
max: organize my books?
max: Yeah, good enough. Okay. So those are all the things I need to do to clean my office today. Right?
max: So right now, if I go to available.
max: those are all showing me that I can do them today.
max: If I go back into projects. And I go. You know what?
max: I really don't feel like cleaning my office today. That's gonna wait until tomorrow. I can go defer until
max: tomorrow.
max: And now, when I go to available, it's all got. It's not even there. I'll just it will come back to my. I know I know it's gonna come back tomorrow and I can. But so I can like get it out of my head. But I'm it's I'm just made a decision. I'm not looking at this today, and you can even get as granular like if you if I wanted to, I could be like, don't show me this until 5 pm, like, I'm actually going to do this after work today.
max: or maybe app like, right? So like after bed, so like, my daughter goes to sleep at 7 so like app. Show me, just show me it after 7 30, you know. Show me it after bedtime. So
max: those are
max: that's how you use that. And what's cool is because I these are all in a project, if I it all, it inherits right? So if I defer it, everything in the project inherits that
max: deferral. If that makes sense.
max: okay, let's do a couple more of these. So this is gonna be target.
Alejandra Guillen: Question Sorry.
max: Yes, yes.
Alejandra Guillen: So a a project?
Alejandra Guillen: What's your expectation for when to finish a project? Do you build projects for the week? Do you build projects for a month.
max: Yes, so I have some projects like, I really do legitimately make a project that's like a shopping list for the grocery store, just because it's where I like to write it down, or I make a project for like clean my office. And that might be one that I'm going to get done in an hour. I just need a place to write it down and like get it out of my brain.
max: So a project could be something that I'm going to do in in and in 30 min. But I also have projects, and in omni-focus that have been there for years that are like.
max: launch my company right? Or something like that. I don't know if that's like best practice, but like it's up to you, it's just. It's like how you want to see things and how you want to organize them.
Alejandra Guillen: Thanks.
Lilliana Robinson: And then do you just not have a due date on those? So they just get to sit there, and they don't show up and available.
max: Yeah, so due date. So let's talk about due dates for a second. So
max: the way this is again, I'm just giving you my opinion about this, and it's not you don't have to do it like this. But so like due dates to me, I have a complicated relationship with due dates. I'm curious. If anyone else has ever had this experience of like, I'll make a little list for myself, and I'll put a due date on everything, and I'd be like that's gonna be done on Tuesday, and that's gonna be done on Wednesday.
max: Then, at the end of the week all I have is just a huge list of overdue things that I didn't do, and they're all screaming at me. And so I I have just stopped using due dates myself. I don't stick to them. They don't help me. They stress me out, and I find them like I find, like I'm lying to myself. I'm like, I will do this by this date, and I just don't do it. So I don't wanna build a muscle of not trying to exercise a muscle of like disappointing myself.
max: So if I, on the rare occasion I so here's what a due date means to me. A due date means to me like it will have like horrible consequences for my life if I don't do this by this date, so a thing that will have a due date for me is like, renew my driver's license like, I better get that done by that date, or I'm gonna like, go to jail for driving without a license, right? So like, if it has a due date. That's like
max: red alarm like it must get done. It's like really serious. If it's like I really want to take out. Remember to take out the trash today. That doesn't get a due date. That's just what I would do. So we'll get into this as like
max: I can show you this. So how many focus is this other thing which is flag? Right? I just flag it.
max: And that's how I decide what I'm that's my intention of what I'm going to get done today is
max: what's flagged.
Lilliana Robinson: So you don't even look at the available tab. You just.
max: I do? I do. I look at available tasks? Yeah, yeah, I do use that. That's how I like. So what I do in the morning is, I look at the available tasks.
max: and then I go through. And I, I'm not doing all this today. But like, what can I get done today. Okay, I can get Liliana's address.
max: I'm going to buy Kitty Litter.
max: I'm not making a financial model for my company, but I'll take out the trash. Those are my 3. If I do those 3 like, I could be like, Okay, I like, did some chores today. And then I can just see those I can get rid of everything else. And I can just see those today. That's like what I wanna get done today.
Lilliana Robinson: Got it.
max: So it's like I'm making like I'm starting with, like, what's everything I can get done. And then I'm picking like. Here's the 5 that I can call this a good day if I did those 5 sort of.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, we have 3 questions. The first one, yeah, go ahead.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you want me to read it to you? The first one is from snow. It says for me, deferring tasks, often collects a bunch of tasks and dumps them to me at once. How do you manage that?
max: I go through and just defer them again. If I get like a bunch of stuff, if I'm like, defer everything until Monday, and then it's Monday, and I'm like.
max: Oh, no, it's the consequences of my own actions. And now everything is undeferred. I just go through and pick more and defer again. Or I try and get some things done, or one of my favorite things in life is deciding that something isn't actually important, and deleting it off my to do list and going, you know. Upon further reflection, I actually don't wanna do this, and I just delete it. It's pretty nice if you can do it.
Lilliana Robinson: Very powerful.
max: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Mark, what about you?
Snow Lee / Runbear: Thanks.
Mark Kirzhner: One of my problems is using task list on a on a mobile device. I believe this this app is also shared on your mobile device, share, share the same data.
Mark Kirzhner: And so when I'm working, my mobile is is closed. If I look at the Whatsapp or something, it can distract me for for really long periods of times. If I check something, on Youtube, I I have some
Mark Kirzhner: some extension that blocks everything from Youtube. I see only the search bar. Otherwise I'm I'm stuck for hours in the middle of doing something important.
Mark Kirzhner: So so the question is, how do you do it on your mobile with this app, and not being distracted.
max: So I don't. I'm the worst pro I mean. I spent an hour on Tiktok last night, like I'm the worst person to ask about this like I love being on my, if I love to be on my phone in my bed.
max: But or I don't love it, but I do it all the time. But
max: I there's an app I really like. What's the one that blocks everything but the search bar.
Mark Kirzhner: I'll check it. I'll put it in the chat.
max: So there's one that I've been playing with that I really like, and it's called one. Sec. One sec. And it's for iphone and what it does I can show you.
max: So you pick the apps. You want it to run on, and it uses you have to set it up with shortcuts and stuff. But you're all smart, you'll figure it out. But so basically, look at what happens. Right? So I'm going to open Twitter, or it's X, the everything app
max: and what it's going to do, it's actually not.
max: Let's see, it shouldn't allow me to open twitter. Oh, there it goes! So it actually puts this all it does is it puts this timer on.
max: and it, I just says, like, Take a breath, and it takes 10 s before I'm allowed to see Twitter.
max: and I just have to sit here and wait.
max: and then I have it programmed to show me, hey? Instead of doing Twitter. Here's a link to the kindle app where you could like. Read a book with your time, and I have to say like for me, like I find myself like going on like Twitter Instagram, whatever those like
max: horrible mind prisons when I'm like bored for 10 s, and I'm in an elevator or like whatever, and sometimes just making myself wait those 10 Si like sober up. And I'm like, Oh, I don't actually wanna yeah, Twitter, like, I actually wanna live a good life. So sometimes, and then amazingly, let me see if I just closed it out
max: 1 1 s like, check this out. So it has these statistics on it right? So it know. So here's what it does. It looks at how much time every time I open twitter.
max: This is so depressing. Every time I open twitter
max: I spend.
max: does it? Say?
max: I don't know. I spend it knows how much time I spend on average on Twitter, and then it looks at the number of successful interventions, and it will tell me right here, this app has saved me 6 h on Twitter.
max: 8 h on Tiktok. God! That's suppressing, and 3 h on Reddit, which is great like, I'm so happy to have that time back that like. So anyway, that's a pitch. That's that one.
Mark Kirzhner: I would.
max: What you add I don't know. I'm sorry. I just got excited about that. But
max: okay, any should I? Is this, do you guys want to keep seeing how many focus is this helpful to keep walking through this.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, yeah. There are 2 more questions. Then.
max: Yeah, let's do it.
Lilliana Robinson: Fabian, and then there's one in the chat.
Fabien | Positive Finance: Hey, Max? Thanks, boys, where? Where do you draw the line, I guess, between your company's system, like base camp pickup, and so on, and where you use only focus to avoid like duplicate entries or subtask projects, and.
max: Yeah. So I take so like.
max: I have many different companies and collaborations with people. And I want, I I don't know about you guys, I'm on notion a lot that's like the new one that everyone likes to use. So, unfortunately, what I do is I at the end of a meeting, or whatever I have to take the to do list items from the shared one from base camp or notion.
max: and I copy and paste them into omni-focus myself.
max: and the reason is, I just I just want to decide for myself what I'm going to do. I don't want someone else to tell me what to do with my time, so
max: you can make it. I think there's.
max: I think, if you ask 10 people that question, you get 10 answers, but that's how I do it, for personally, from myself.
Fabien | Positive Finance: Yeah, yeah, trying to figure out that. But yeah, thanks.
max: It's it's not great like. I don't love the
max: fractured like every having information everywhere like it really, actually like, I feel the same way about chatting with people like, I never know where I talk. I all the time I'm like, where am I talking to this person? I have 9 apps, and it's like, Are we in like Dms? Or what is it, you know? Like.
Fabien | Positive Finance: Team.
max: Same with to dos. I'm like, where is that thing I need to do so
max: personally for me.
max: If it's an omni focus, I will pay attention to it and do it. And if it's not an omni focus, it's like someone else's problem. It's like, I'm not paying attention to it.
max: Thank you. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Do you ever like? Write down your things in in the wrong place, like on a post it, or like somewhere else? Because.
max: Love. I have.
Lilliana Robinson: We're.
max: I I mean
max: I have full. I have so many like I have nothing but note, like my entire desk, is just
max: random scraps of paper, or I write things down. I come home. I take things out of my pocket, and it's like, it's like, it's like, Wow, like I have stuff everywhere, but that's like it has to go into omni. If I'm really want to do it, it has to go an omni focus. It has to.
Lilliana Robinson: So is there like a Si like, I'm looking at my ghosts around, too. Is there like a system where you put it in, or like.
max: There and I type it. I don't. I open. I like open that. I sit at my computer look. So I was at a thrift store, and I got this restaurant check pad, and I was just using it as a to do list and just writing my stuff down on it. And then it's like here. And I just sit down on my computer and I sit and type it in Omni focus. Because if I don't, it's gonna I'm gonna lose it. If it's on a little piece of paper like I'm definitely gonna lose it. It's going in the washing machine. Probably.
Lilliana Robinson: I see. So it's just like, you know, the importance of it. So you make sure to write it down. There's not like a.
max: Try to like it. Yeah, I try to write down everything, and then it has to go into omni focus. So like
max: the sort of the best case scenario is to type it right into omni focus for me. What's my favorite is to type it right in Omni focus in my computer. And there's the Omni focus is a sort of like hot key. You can push, and it does a little pop up, and you can just quick capture, or whatever which is cool, but like
max: I also like little pads like I like my little tiny pads of paper, and I personal style. I love paper and pen, and I like thinking with paper and pen. And so then I just but then the and the downside is like, you know. Then you have to sit there after the meeting and type my notes into me focus. But you know, that's whatever that's life.
Lilliana Robinson: Sounds like it's a muscle. Yeah, like, you have to get used to that.
max: Yeah, yeah, I guess, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: A bunch of people in the chat are asking, How do you handle delegating tasks, and how do you delegate without disappointing.
max: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: To do like.
max: Let's talk about this. Alright.
max: let's go into the financial model. That's a one where we can do delegation. This is the best. This is where this is like the best.
max: This is so cool.
max: Who said, financial model is that Jennifer.
Jennifer Loh: It was J. Lo, yes.
max: Will you tell me like we don't actually need to get into making a financial model, but I don't even know what a financial model is, could you? What are the to do? Items.
Jennifer Loh: Okay, need to figure out the metrics for the financial model, like the leverage.
max: What does that? What does that? What do you do to figure out? What does that mean? You have to have a conversation with the team.
Jennifer Loh: Oh,
Jennifer Loh: yes.
max: Okay, so let's just make that a project. So here we go. So here's how I would think about this. So I would write down the big idea, which is like, figure out the metrics
max: for the model is that it.
Jennifer Loh: Yeah.
max: One of the. Here's another good trick. By the way, of how I'm writing this down. So I'm repeating the use of the phrase financial model where I didn't just say, figure out the metrics, I said. Figure out the metrics for the financial model, even though it's in the financial model project.
max: And the reason is, later I might see this out of context. And it's gonna save me a little cycle of thinking to see the whole thing written out. So I know exactly what we're doing. So this actually has a sub task which is meet
max: with the team to discuss
max: metrics. And then there's probably another task which is like schedule a meeting with the team right? So there's like reach out
max: to the team to schedule a meeting.
max: and then there is. Hear back from Team
max: Member Want, who's on your company? Who.
Jennifer Loh: Yeah. And Lisa.
max: So hear back from Sergei.
max: Hear back from Lisa
max: about next metrics.
max: meaning.
max: okay.
max: So
max: meet with the team to discuss metrics. I can't do that until we
max: yeah, until we schedule the meeting. So first I have to. So the next. So in order to do that, first, I have to reach out, and then I have to hear back from everyone.
max: So this is, O,
max: so this is how this looks.
max: So this is going to get
max: a tag of Lisa.
max: And this is going to get a tag of
max: surgeon.
max: Okay.
max: so
max: and so, this project is actually a sequential. It has to get done in this order.
max: and this project is a parallel, because it doesn't matter whether I hear back from Lisa or Sergei what order right? I could hear back from Lisa or Sergeant any order. So this little Mini project is
max: all at once, and this is in order it's got to be.
max: This has got to get done like this right.
Jennifer Loh: Right?
Jennifer Loh: Okay.
max: So
max: What's available in this project, if I go to available.
max: is only
max: oh, I set that up wrong.
max: Here we go, so it's only reach out so it should be. Only
max: reach out to the team to schedule a meeting. That's the only thing that can get done right now, like. I can't hear back from Sergei because I haven't emailed Sergey yet, and I can't make the metrics because we haven't had the meeting. So the only thing on my plate is reach out to the team to schedule a meeting. So now I'm gonna write my email and say, Sergey Lisa, we gotta meet about the thing. Fill out this form, whatever you guys do.
max: Great! I'm I'm done with my work. I did my part and I emailed them right
max: now I have a delegate task now I have a dependency.
max: I have to hear back from Lisa, and I have to hear back from Sergei.
max: so I don't wanna hear? I don't care about this. I already emailed them. It's not my problem today. But I'm gonna give them until Monday.
max: So I'm going to defer this until Monday.
max: and I'm going to flag it because it's important to. I need to hear back from them. So what's cool is now, on Monday morning
max: this thing is gonna pop up. And I'm gonna be like, Oh, did I hear back from Lisa? Did I hear back from Sergei? And if I didn't, I'm gonna email them again and say, Hey, guys, gotta close loop on this. I didn't hear back from you.
max: This is an unbelievable superpower
max: I had. I will just to share like one story with you. I was doing for the puzzles I was doing customer service for the I was answering all the customer service emails from the puzzles. And I kept hearing. And I was hearing from users, from people. And they would email. And they'd say, Hey, there's a problem or the art is peeling off. It's delaminating from the cardboard. This is like a huge red flag for me. Something is wrong with the manufacturing.
max: So I emailed the factory rep in China. And I was like, sent them a picture. And I was like, Hey, one of our customers emailed us, what's up with this. What happened I didn't hear back. So I make a to do list item, and I go in one week.
max: hear back from the guy in China, and I hadn't heard back from him. So I email him again, right?
max: And he says, Let me look into it. And I say.
max: look into it. I feel like that's like buying time. So I go in one week. Remind me again, hear back from. So I just have this thing come up every week. I emailed this guy every week
max: for like a year, and and I didn't let him off the hook until and every time we met about something, or he wanted some new business, or we're talking about the contract, or whatever I'm like. Hey, what's up with this one thing? Because I it's like a superpower like. I always remembered this one little like it's like a
max: like a broken nail, you know. It's like it was like I was always there like I just I never could forget it, cause it was in my omni focus. And I and I, we did get to the bottom of it. It was like there was like water was getting into some of the packages during shipping or something, and it's fixed. But like later, that guy was like, How did you like. He's like, how did you do that like he's like, I thought for sure. You just forget about that, and we'd move on with our life. But like you, just.
max: he was like, you're like a dog like you just like wouldn't let it go like you just kept asking and asking and asking, and like I'm trust me, I'm not walking around in my life like thinking about that. It's just it's in my thing. And so it reminds me to do it so it will make you so tenacious to like. Have a deferred thing that keeps popping up and popping up and popping up like you'll never forget. It's like it just makes you
max: like
max: you're like the Terminator. So like.
max: because you just know what I'm talking about. There's like so many things in life where you're like. I'm not gonna deal with this. That person's definitely forgetting. Gonna forget about it, right? Or like, I'll just no one's gonna remind me about this like you will never forget. You will just keep going and going and going and going, because we'll always remind you of it. So that's how I deal with like
max: deferring out is like I have the meeting with the person, and then I write down for myself, I go like it's not. I can't control, if, like, I'm so like, let's say it's like.
max: I couldn't put on my to do list. Lisa emails me back about the meeting because I can't do that. That's not my task. I'm not Lisa. I can't make her do it. Sorry, Lisa. I don't mean to. If you're here. I don't mean to.
max: Pick on you or whatever but like it's like,
max: did you guys, does that make sense like you can't write something down that you can't do so. You can only write down what you can do, and what I can do is hear back from her. That's my responsibility is to hear back, and then like, do the next action. And if I don't hear back it's not getting checked off, and I'm never gonna let Lisa's never gonna hear the end of it? It's gonna be like, why don't you reply to my email? What's going on bumping this thread, putting this thread on top of your inbox just have to be like so tenacious
max: good for sales, good for all kinds of things like you will just like, never, ever, ever
max: forget one of those little annoying things.
max: So let's just say, now, Lisa emails me back some dates. Sergi emails me back some dates. So that's done. So right. So now, what's available?
max: Meet with the team to discuss the metrics. We have our meeting, and I can check that off. And now
max: it's I have to write. My, I don't know what the deliverable is. Right. This should really be something like.
max: Send the Google Doc to the team. It should be like a thing that could be done right like, circulate the Google Doc to the team with
max: the first draft of the metric, something like that right? And now we can be done with that. And now this project itself make a financial model actually becomes available. There's no remaining tasks.
max: And now I can click there. And we're done. That project is done.
max: Project itself is complete.
max: And that's why that's like the power of having projects that can like be completed.
max: So having
max: def defer right? So it like pops up. And then suddenly, it's like, Okay, you gotta deal with this again.
max: Defer it pops up. You gotta deal with it again. It's so it's so. It's huge life changing.
Lilliana Robinson: So do you wanna yield to like, or try to stay on the side of having projects that you can get rid of, and not just things that like, sit there and you keep filling.
max: Correct. I think this is an idea in in Omni focus. Is like, only put things on your to do list that that are to do's so like, what is it to do? It has to be a thing that could be done, like.
max: be like, achieve happiness and inner peace
max: cannot really go on your to do list because it can't be done. It's like, an ongoing life project.
max: I don't always do that. I have. I have. Listen. I have a project in my personal one that's like
max: my house.
max: That's never done right. It's just. I just need a place to put that stuff, but it's like best practice is like, only put things on that can be done
max: completed.
max: I'm happy to make some more example projects and keep like going through this or and I should say one more thing is
max: I'll share again. I'm gonna share these notes. But the setup that I'm showing you where I have that available perspective. That's like a custom perspective. And the instructions for how to set that up are in this video. I recommended the Mac Sparky Omni Focus Guide. So I'll link that out to everyone, and he'll just show you like. Here's how you set that perspective up and and so on, and so forth. So
max: I think we're past time. So I will stay. I let me just double check.
Lilliana Robinson: We have 10 min left.
max: Oh, we do. Okay, cool. So let's do questions. And then do.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, there are 2 things for you.
max: I'm.
Lilliana Robinson: So Nelson.
max: I can hang out and talk if people want to as well. So.
Lilliana Robinson: Thanks.
Nelson Mitchell: I? Thanks for answering that delegate thing that is always a bugaboo, and I love your approach there so I love that.
max: The main. The key thought technology for delegate. I've had very complicated, very, very, very sensitive and complicated delegations, like I've like had to like delegate up to like important people and things like that. So I've had very sensitive, like, delegation system situations in my life. And
max: yeah, yeah, it's just like it's the way I think of it is. I will only write something down that I can do. I'm not going to write something down that it's not my
max: like. I can't write something down that's like someone else is going to do. And sometimes all you can do is be like.
max: hear back from this person. And so you just have to write down, hear back from this person, because it's the only thing you can do.
Nelson Mitchell: So I have 2 questions for you. We talked about you. You just touched on evergreen project, and how the mentality is that you only want to have project, you can actually complete right? But like.
Nelson Mitchell: if there's something in your life, it's like evergreen, like, I don't know, like like you said, like working on the house. Is that an appropriate use of the tag?
Nelson Mitchell: Like to just like tag something as like out so like when you're thinking about.
max: Listen like tab when you say, like appropriate use, like, I just wanna be clear like I'm not. I'm not selling anything, and like I don't even barely have. I'm like hanging on by my fingernails myself. So like don't just don't do it. I'm just sharing. I'm just saying
max: I'm just trying to share, like how the best, the least bad way I've figured out to do it.
max: I think probably the most popular use of tags is like exactly what you're talking about is like, you wanna see all the stuff for your house. And there it is. I I can also tell you, like the way in the book getting things done like they recommend doing it is, that is, to think of, you know, whatever tags or dependencies as like blockers, things that are outside of yourself, meaning like it has to be the night. To do this. I have to be in this
max: specific location. I have to be home to do this. I ha! Blockers, I need to be on that call with this person. I need you write external dependencies that prevent you from doing the project right now, whatever it could be. What's an external dependency that prevents you from doing it right now? That's a tag, right? Cause you're you're you're like, what's blocking me. I even have a friend who has uses tag. This is an interesting one. I have a friend, you I do not do this, but I have a friend who uses tags, and they write
max: high energy and low energy, and so they have some types of tasks that can only be done when they're like, Wake up in the morning. Have the cup of coffee, and you're like full of energy, and you can like do it, and that's like.
max: I don't know, like writing a sales email. You know, it's like, you just have to be like ready to go. And they have other things that's like low energy. And that could be like data entry where it's like, I'm only going to do this if I'm sleepy or on an airplane or something like that. So those are interesting ways to think of blockers, too, is like, what's your own energy
max: to bring to it.
Nelson Mitchell: Awesome. I one other question. I'm sorry to pile them up. But
Nelson Mitchell: Do you schedule time on your calendar to go through your little bits of paper, and go through all your systems and.
max: I do?
Nelson Mitchell: Oh, are we on the grasshopper.
max: So I forgot this key thing. So ami focus. So check this out.
max: So omni focus has this little thing called review. Everything is reviewed right now. But basically, how do I let me see? Can I make something? So I need to review it?
max: Let's just make this reviewed like yesterday.
max: No, hang on, that's May.
max: Let's just make it overdue. Okay, great.
max: So look. So I'm I mean, I'm in techstars. My, my, this is the project. For like this, talk right like, prepare this talk right? And let's just say, I, wanna
max: how often do I want to review this talk? Personal preference. How often do you want to be reminded of it for something that's like time sensitive like I've got to get it done by this deadline. I might want to review it.
max: Yeah, just every one week.
max: Okay, that's pretty aggressive for review, like reviewing it every week. But like, yeah. So now
max: I have a little one under review, and it's telling me I I need to review this project
max: meaning like, What's it's that's like, take a look, think about it for a second like.
max: is this everything I need to do? Are any of these things stale? Have I changed my mind so I can go through and be like, okay, you know what? I really don't need to deal with the zoom link. I already have that. So I'm gonna just take that. I'm not even gonna I'm just gonna delete that.
max: Then I'm done and I go, mark reviewed.
max: And what's cool is now I can see the next review will be on May third.
max: so it pushes. So now in a week it's going to remind me to review it, so I don't schedule it in my calendar, but I do use the review tool and omni focus. And I and in the morning I wake up and I, omni focus tells me what I need to review. I have some projects I review every week, some I review every day, some I review, every month, I have some I only review. I have one project in omni focus called like.
max: I think that right now I'm calling it like
max: idea, like ideas for the future or something. And it's like where I write down like crazy company ideas or something like that. And that one I just review once a year. It's just like, is this something I wanna you know, stuff I don't. Wanna, you know, like, Oh, I should
max: talk, you know. Whatever like.
max: Buy this thing or start, you know, whatever crazy ideas for the future.
max: But yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: So what does review mean? Like, we're just looking at it.
max: Yeah, means like, look at the like. So what what I do during a review is like, I'm looking at the project, and I'm trying to get the whole picture of it in my head. I'm like, No, okay. So like it starts with, is this project still important to my life? Do I even want this project
max: in my life? Right? So if if I have a whole project for, like
max: you know, whatever like buying a bicycle and go to the store and research it. And you know this and that, and then I decide later, like, you know what? I don't even really want to own a bicycle.
max: Great. That's the purpose of the review is to be like, I'm just dropping this project. It's not I. I've just changed my mind. So the first thing in a review is like, is this project
max: support what you want to do in your life?
max: Then I'm looking at the individual tasks, and I'm like, is it complete? Is everything I need? Really does this reflect everything that needs to be done in the project? And then I'm going to go through the tasks and be like, are any of these like stale or wrong? Or do they need an update?
max: But the idea is like you, you never wanna feel there's this like great freedom of like taking everything out of your brain. And you have a little contract with yourself of like it's in on me. It's in my to do list. I won't forget it. It's written down, but part of that is like to fulfill that contract for yourself. You can't forget it. You have to remember. You have to look at it at some point. So the review is like.
max: I promise I won't forget this. It's not just going into a black hole and disappearing like I will review it. I will look at it
max: so I would do a review.
max: I try to do a review. I wake up in the morning and I try to make it the for before I get into my email or anything else, I try to open up my to do list. And I review my tasks. I pick what I'm gonna do for the day, and I try to make my own decision for myself of like, what's the story of the day like, what am I trying to get done? What what life am I gonna have today?
max: Then I get into everything else.
max: And then another question. Sorry to this is a long answer
max: Another question was about Calendar. I also use a calendar, and it's really serious for me. If I put something on my calendar, it's like there's no like. I don't put things on my calendar that I like remember to take out the garbage like the calendar, is like.
max: I have to have this thing happen at this time, where it will ruin my life. It's like serious appointments, like real real stuff.
max: Pick up my daughter!
max: Whatever like it has to be, it's like real on my calendar. Otherwise it has to go somewhere else.
max: cause the worst is, you open up your calendar and you have a bunch of like bullshit that you don't really need to do, and you can't even tell where your next appointment is like. I don't like having like extra things in my, that's this is my personal taste, but that's for me. That's what works.
Lilliana Robinson: At the point. Doug, what about you?
Doug Rogers: Yeah, I just wanna that audio note to transcribed inbox to do. Item.
Doug Rogers: is that using? Like apple shortcuts.
max: Yeah, I just made a shortcut. So basically it triggers a shortcut so you can have this button right in the set system settings
max: you can set this button to do all kinds of things, and one of them is run shortcut. So I made a shortcut for myself. That opens up a text transcription. And then, when I'm done with the transcription, it sends it to Omni focus and omni focus has really nice. What do they call it X. URL
max: callbacks. It has really good. Yeah, URL, schema support for.
Doug Rogers: Oh, lights. Okay?
max: It's it's in the shortcut system. So you can then take that transcribe text and follow a URL schema to just send it straight to Omi focus. So when I talk, when I use that and I talk into the phone, it goes
max: right and omni-focus. There's no extra step.
Doug Rogers: Could you share that.
max: Yeah, I could share that. I'm happy to.
Doug Rogers: I think those are shareable that'd be awesome.
max: It is. Yeah. Great idea. Let me. Okay. So now I have to put this in my real omni focus. So
max: remember to share my shortcut for Ios.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll send this recording to you, Max, so you can see the chat and you can go back and get everything you want.
max: Okay, I'm definitely not doing that. So I'll have to.
Lilliana Robinson: But you made a to do for you to look at the books.
max: Yeah. But I mean, I mean, I'm gonna write them down right now. I'm not re-watching them.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, my!
max: But listen myself. Talk for an hour.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so we're at time. But Liam, Max said, he has extra time, so he can.
max: Yeah, I'll I'm happy to stay in chat, and also, if
max: I don't want to take anyone's time. But if there's any like parents who want to have a quick like parent chat, which is a sub problem I would love. I would be very so. I would love to hear
max: any advice or thoughts.